# Installing Windows

Before installing `Windows` on `Orange Pi 6 Plus` make sure to set `LPI Max State` to `LPI 0` and disable cores `2`, `3`, `4` and `5`, according to [the official docs](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1ScEfAOmPyj7ieTT9E_Z8buGU4teSVFBO).

Then download an `.iso` image from [here][orange-pi-6-plus-windows-11] and burn it to a `USB` flash drive using `rufus`, which is also provided in the mentioned cloud folder.

::: tip Verifying integrity of the windows image

There is also `.sha256` file in the provided cloud folder, you can use it to check the integrity of the downloaded windows image by running this command:

```sh
Get-FileHash "C:\Users\Administrator\Downloads\SW_DVD9_Win_Pro_11_23H2.22_Arm64_English_Pro_Ent_EDU_N_MLF_X24-14751S.ISO" -Algorithm SHA256
```

And comparing its' output with the contents of the `.sha256` file - the hash value has to be the same.

:::

If you're using another windows image, before burning it to a `USB` flash drive you can check that `install.wim` is correct by mounting it to, say, `E:` and running the following command:

```sh
dism /Get-WimInfo /WimFile:E:\sources\install.wim
```

If it displays information about windows build, then everything is OK, and you can write the image to `USB` flash drive. If `rufus` asks about modifying the installed (disable `TPM` check and etc), I recommend to reset all checkboxes to avoid potential errors, because it is likely that `rufus` will fail to patch a non-standard windows installer.

After the image is burned, add `windows11-arm64-driver` from [here][orange-pi-6-plus-windows-11] to the `USB` flash drive. This folder contains required drivers for correct hardware identification by the OS, including driver for `Ethernet` adapters.

After adding the folder with drivers, boot from the created `USB` flash drive and follow the installer instructions, select `Enterprise` edition.

## Bypass hardware check

When installing `Windows` on `Orange Pi 6 Plus` the system might complain about unsatisfied hardware requirements. In this situation:

1. Invoke shell by pressing `Shift + F10` and type `regedit`.
2. Navigate to `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE > SYSTEM > Setup`.
3. Create a new key called `LabConfig`.
4. Inside `LabConfig` create `BypassTPMCheck` key with type `DWORD` (32-bit) and value `1`.
5. Close the editor, close the shell and press `back`.
6. Start installation again - now it should be fine.

## Installing drivers

After you've successfully installed and booted the `Windows` system, it's time to install drivers. Since some drivers fail installation due to problems with certificate authorities, they should be installed with disabled security check. The security check can be disabled by executing the following sequence of actions:

1. Press `Start` button with windows logo, open `Settings > System > Recovery`.
2. Under `Advanced Startup`, click `Restart now`.
3. After reboot choose `Troubleshoot > Advanced options > Startup Settings > Restart`.
4. After reboot press `7` or `F7` for choosing `Disable driver signature enforcement`.
5. After reboot run `driver.bat` from the `windows11-arm64-driver` folder, on next reboot the driver signature enforcement will be enabled.

## Adding grub menuentry for booting windows

This might be useful for launching windows using the same [boot menu](1.%20Multiboot%20Setup.md) which is used for switching between `linux` distributions. Use the following template for creating a new `menuentry` in `/boot/grub/grub.cfg`:

```sh
menuentry 'Windows Boot Manager (on /dev/nvme1n1p1)' --class windows {
  insmod part_gpt
  insmod fat
  search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root <efi-uuid>
  chainloader /EFI/Microsoft/Boot/bootmgfw.efi
}
```

Here `<efi-uuid>` must be replaced with the `uuid` of the `efi` parition, which can be traced by running:

```sh
sudo blkid | grep vfat | cut -d '"' -f2
```

The result should look like `7816-EA20`. After updating `/boot/grub/grub.cfg` reboot - the `Windows` menuentry should appear alongside other boot options.

## Moving windows to another SSD

If you've installed windows on a separate SSD, it might be useful to move it to the same SSD on which linux distributions are located. For doing this, first make sure that you have enough unallocated space on the target disk. If there are some partitions that should be deleted, use `fdisk` tool like this (**the updated disk should be unmounted**):

```sh
sudo fdisk
> p
Disk /dev/nvme0n1: 476.94 GiB, 512110190592 bytes, 1000215216 sectors
Disk model: HFM512GDHTNG-8310A
Units: sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disklabel type: gpt
Disk identifier: 75BF3C94-A491-4812-8A3D-CCB5B5D02149

Device             Start        End   Sectors   Size Type
/dev/nvme0n1p1      2048    1050623   1048576   512M EFI System
/dev/nvme0n1p2   1050624  269486079 268435456   128G Linux filesystem
/dev/nvme0n1p3 269486080  537921535 268435456   128G Linux filesystem
/dev/nvme0n1p4 537921536 1000214527 462292992 220.4G Linux filesystem
> d
> 4
> w

```

Then create a new partition:

```sh
sudo fdisk
> p
Disk /dev/nvme0n1: 476.94 GiB, 512110190592 bytes, 1000215216 sectors
Disk model: HFM512GDHTNG-8310A
Units: sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disklabel type: gpt
Disk identifier: 75BF3C94-A491-4812-8A3D-CCB5B5D02149
Device             Start        End   Sectors   Size Type
/dev/nvme0n1p1      2048    1050623   1048576   512M EFI System
/dev/nvme0n1p2   1050624  269486079 268435456   128G Linux filesystem
/dev/nvme0n1p3 269486080  537921535 268435456   128G Linux filesystem
/dev/nvme0n1p4 537921536 1000214527 462292992 220.4G Linux filesystem
> n
> Enter
> Enter
> +128G
> t
> 4
> 11
> p
Disk /dev/nvme0n1: 476.94 GiB, 512110190592 bytes, 1000215216 sectors
Disk model: HFM512GDHTNG-8310A
Units: sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disklabel type: gpt
Disk identifier: 75BF3C94-A491-4812-8A3D-CCB5B5D02149
Device             Start       End   Sectors  Size Type
/dev/nvme0n1p1      2048   1050623   1048576  512M EFI System
/dev/nvme0n1p2   1050624 269486079 268435456  128G Linux filesystem
/dev/nvme0n1p3 269486080 537921535 268435456  128G Linux filesystem
/dev/nvme0n1p4 537921536 806356991 268435456  128G Microsoft basic data
> w
```

Copy data from source to target partition:

```sh
dd if=/dev/nvme1n1p2 of=/dev/nvme0n1p4 bs=64M status=progress
```

## Updating windows bootloader

Now to boot the new windows we need to somehow update `/EFI/Microsoft/Boot/BCD` on the `efi` partition. For doing that you could go a hard-core way:

1. Make sure that the new `windows` installation is not corrupted;
2. Purge the old windows through `fdisk`;
3. Run `windows` installer from a `USB` - this should automatically identify the new `windows` partition. Choose language and keyboard on the startup screen, then go to `Repair your computer`, then choose `Troubleshoot` and then - option related to booting issues, select the partition with target `windows` installation. The installer will run the repair, and report that the operation has failed, however, don't believe the message and try to reboot, selecting `windows` bootloader;
4. There will be menu with two (or more) options - one pointing to the new windows, and one pointing to the old one, which no longer works. The broken option can be deleted by booting into the working `windows` installation, opening command line with administrator privilidges and running:

```sh
bcdedit /v
```

This will display all `windows` installations available on your device. The option with `partition=C:` is the currently booted one. You can delete the other partitions by executing:

```sh
bcdedit /delete <guuid>
```

Here `<guuid>` has to be replaced with the `identifier` which is assigned to the corresponding `windows` installation in the list.

[orange-pi-6-plus-windows-11]: https://cloud.mail.ru/public/M19i/kjY4iP1mL
